# BigchainDB sprint planning, Nov 20 2017

Sprint planning 11th-20th December 2017
## Agenda

1. Go through tasks on the wall
2. Discuss about BigchainDB future path


## Notes

### 1. Tasks this week


- Tendermint
    - There is needed another person who reviews the PR. Sylvain can do it.
    - Do not integrate Tendermint configuration into BigchainDB configuration. So eventually in the future could be unified.
    - There are some endpoints that might not be needed. Vansh wrote an issue and proposal about it. It’s about to ignore those endpoints as they don't fit very well with Tendermint.
    - Alberto thinks that the status endpoint is weird, is not really ‘needed’. More simple thing would be an endpoint that specifies whether a transaction is written or if not. He also thinks there is a lot of endpoints, but maybe we just need an endpoint for when u put a transaction it answer if the transaction is there
    - There was an issue solved by Tendermint guys in the develop branch. We could use that branch.
- Tim
    - There is a problem with version number of BigchainDB as we don’t know how
    to set it. Tim has an idea, will discuss with Sylvain
    - Troy proposed to increase the version number. We will take all of the
    constraints that people have. Sylvain thinks we first decide mayor stuff
    than to spend time deciding which version BigchainDB software should have.
    - Update Katha on the sprint planning, as
- Alberto
    - He did not have too much time last week to work on Tendermint

    - By the end of the sprint we will finish the integration. Don’t publish anything. We postpone for the next year the discussion about several products, version discussions etc.


- Sylvain
    - He thinks we should split into two products, so there is not a problem with legacy code.
    - Some people from the management team don't know some technical details (as possible high throughput, etc.) so more engineers should be involved in the decisions of BigchainDB software.
    - Finish the UTX for the merkle root
    - Once that is done, work python driver write a blogpost.
- Devops team
    - Last week created a test network that is running.
    - Make a PR for the test network.
    - Update docs
    - Make a PR for configuration
    - Scripts and docker files need to be updated.
    - Integration tests, there is a proposal for that.
- Troy
    - With Sylvain go through the PR that Sylvain created.
    - He needs to understand all the steps being involved and update the docs.
    - Look at the handcrafting transactions and the Java and other drivers to see possible changes needed.
- Manolo
    - There is a workshop for the AE team on Thursday and Friday.
    - Workshop for Tuesday and Wednesday was canceled due long term view of BigchainDB needs to be decided.
    - By the end of the sprint, the hitchhiker guide should be finished.
    - As always, he will spend some time in the SIDE project.

### 2. Commit and reveal

- AE team: feedback about endpoints
- Management team: Sylvain thinks more engineers should be involved in some decisions.
- Alberto:
Quoting Pieter Hintjens: ‘Which problem we are going to solve’. He would like to know the problem we are trying to solve with BigchainDB. In his mind is still the Reedit post. He does not want that at the end this post is right.
- Sylvain: would like to know if the problem is about too much resources invested in the token launch of Ocean or BigchainDB. He wants to focus on problems.
- Tim: there are different products of BigchainDB that could fit into different use cases and Ocean. We should define which of them we want to take care. Problem space is so huge, is very difficult to hear all of them and condense them. Tim thinks we are close.
-Muawiakh: Does it add value to the company what we are developing? Are we doing this because there is not market for the software that we were doing, or is because Ocean? He would like to clarify those questions.
- Manolo: the long term path of BigchainDB and IPDB software should be decided as there are several clients that require it. Also the search functionality needs to be improved.
