# Planning meeting notes from 15th Jan 2018

## Open discussion around the two flavours of BigchainDB

Same code base should be maintained for both flavours of BDB - Distributed and BFT.
Needs more planning on how to make the same code base work for both.

Common components should be maintained together in a single code base so that it's easy to maintain and fix in future.

Initially, we should make the code split.
There is no evolution of the initial product into the BFT product.
There needs to be cleanup done on the distributed flavour to make it more performant.

API layer can be common between the two products.

## Pending/In-progress items on tendermint integration:

* Integration tests
* Code cleanup
* Integrate Bigchain and BigchainDB classes
* UTXO set and application hash
* Updates to drivers
* How to check if the node the application is talking to is byzantine or not? - To be discussed further after initial exploration by Sylvain and Alberto (ETA 18.01.2018)
* Documentation updates
    * Taking down what's outdated
    * Adding new updated docs

## What should we do untill the offsite?

Sylvain - Create new repo forked from the current BigchainDB repo and take the tendermint integration further into that. Complete the tendermint integration in a clean way on this new repo.
Create a slack channel to list down the offiste agenda.

Alberto - Listing down what to discuss during the offsite. Make a list of issues and open items to be discussed. Prepare for offiste at least a day before.

Kamal - Use the document initially shared and that can be a base for discussions during offsite.
