# BigchainDB sprint planning, Nov 20 2017

## Agenda

1. Propose structure of notes taking
2. Go through tasks on the wall
3. Organize tasks into goals from Nov 17 2017 commit and reveal

## Notes

### 1. Governance

- All: We're OK with taking notes and publishing them publicly
- Trent: We need a open source governance model for IPDB & Ocean from the dev
  team. Everyone should have the option to give an input into the process
- We should move communication into the open
- Interesting gov models: IETF, W3C, Open Stack, ZeroMQ
- We should include customers into governance models
- We should only make everything public once we have the Apache2 license

### 2. Tasks this week

- Trent
    - Prepare talks (TEDx, etc.)
- CORE
    - Transition into round 2
        - Finalize API to Tendermint, replicate all test cases
    - Need to define more tickets for round 2
    - Integration is going well
    - Katha can be on-boarded to Tendermint project
    - Proposal to meet earlier than sprint planning to define a plan
    - Edit old blog posts to make readers aware that we're not doing
      scalability research for niw
    - Write a new blog posts on Tendermint that describes our way forward
        - We're modularizing BigchainDB more: Pluggable consensus, etc.
- UX
    - Python driver: Problems with fixing docs for iPython
    - IPDB protocol:
        - Done with transaction model (was straight forward)
        - Unclear tasks ahead, reviews of PR will be necessary, bilateral
          coversations will be necessary
        - On questions: We could create GitHub issues
    - Interledger five-bells-condition
        - We waited for 5 weeks on Interledger for merge our PR (tests were
          failing)
        - We're going to move the project to our own fork for now
        - Have we mentioned that the PR is stuck in the 
- IPDB
    - Kick-off Tendermint integration for IPDB
    - Dynamic configurations for IPDB-Tendermint deployment for local testing
- Ocean
    - Whitelist application
        - Someone from Coran deployed a Heroku app for the Ocean whitelist
        - Making sure that they move ahead on deployment
    - Nautilus:
        - Open source governance
    - IMDA PoC:
        - If DEX needs help with UI, we should be ready to help
        - Are people using this PoC? Yes, Aviva is going to use it once we make
          the following changes:
            - We need to make the store centralized
            - We need to adjust the UI
        - Should we do a blog post on the work that we did with IMDA?

### 3. Commit and reveal

- Muawia: Arch documentation for all tasks that we're doing
- Tim: Self-organization, various things
- Katha: Learning, debugging, pre-commit hook, better solution for "the wall"
- Troy: Transaction model thoughts and improvements (deffer to later)
- Shahbaz: Review process for architecture design (helps Muawia and Alberto)
- Manolo: Learn and create better code snippets for Crypto-conditions for
  JS-driver
- Jerry: Maintenance and NPM tools (fix Interledger five-bells-conditions)
- Gautam: Details. Generalized version of what Shahbaz and Muawia said. Better
  documentation overall. AE side: What are the outcomes that we're
  achieving/wanting to achieve
- Alberto: Marketing and communication towards reconciling our messaging
  towards Tendermint roadmap
- Trent:
    - Governance, everyone should learn and think on governance
    - What is the Ocean track right now? It's research, we shouldn't expect
    weekly reporting like development
    - 3 key properties: features of stories, tech spikes, research
